# Bitcoin Analysis with Plotly and Dash

Welcome to the GitHub repo for my Bitcoin analysis report. You can check the main report on my Render.com web app: [https://app-99au.onrender.com](https://app-99au.onrender.com)

This report use the plotly library for the data visualizations and the dash library for the web app.

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Explanation](#explanation)

## Installation

Use separate virtual environment. And then, install directly from requirements.txt
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

Using the same virtual environment, run:
```
python app.py
```

That's it! You will be able to run it in localhost.

## Explanation
There are two main Python scripts that you can check in this repo:

`btc_script.py` - This script is used to pull data from three different API sources (CoinGecko, MemPool, and Yahoo Finance). The same script also contains all of my data wrangling steps. The Pickle files are the automatic result of this script's operation (check the **pickles** folder). 

`app.py` - This script is exclusively used to create the interactive data visualizations (using plotly library) and to establish the web app (using Dash library). `app.py` import files from the Pickle files (that are generated by `btc_script.py`).

You may want to ask, why do we need the Pickle files? Because otherwise the visualizations will have to keep pulling API data, and that's not good since I use free API sources with a lot of limitations.

The workflow basically works like this:
1. run `btc_script.py` => pull API data to pandas data frames, transform and analyze the data frames, and generate Pickle files
2. run `app.py` => visualize the data from the Pickle files at the end of `btc_script.py`, and put the visualizations together in the web dashboard using the dash library

_Update (October 15, 2023)_: I uploaded `eth_script.py` - This script basically works just like `btc_script.py`, but for Ethereum data. I use CoinGecko, Owlracle, and DefiLlama as my API sources. 

_Update (October 22, 2023)_: I uploaded `btc_september_2023_report.py`, which (for now) is the same script as `app.py`. I created the Bitcoin september report script because I will have to update `app.py` later to accommodate multiple reports at once (I plan to update `app.py` by the end of October). I also uploaded `eth_october_2023_report.py` which is the visualization script for the Ethereum Pickle files that were generated by `eth_script.py`
